"Point in Polyhedron" transforms .obj files into DDSCAT7 shape format.

Authors: Roman Schuh and Thomas Wriedt, using routines by John Burkardt.

To compile under Unix type "make" in current directory. Windows executables are available in corresponding ADDA packages.

Executable is named 'pip', it accepts a two command line parameters: 

- maximum shape size in dipoles along the largest dimension that is determined automatically;

- A 'filename'. Input shape is read from 'filename.obj' and DDSCAT7 shape is saved into
'filename.dat'.

 Usage: "pip xdpl filename".
 
 If only one argumant is provided, pip will use the default filename 'shape' (read 'shape.obj' and save 'shape.dat').

It should be possible to read other 3D formats, which are supported by routines in 'ivread_wr.f90' - see comments in the
source files. However, only .obj format is sufficiently tested. Moreover, the algorithm requires consistent alignment of
face normals - they should all point outward.

To test executable run "pip 20" in the current folder. It will use provided 'shape.obj' that defines a star-shaped
object and produce 'shape.dat' which should be identical to provided 'shape_test.dat'.

Finally, The DDSCAT7 shape format is readable by ADDA starting from version 1.1. ADDA 1.0 can read only DDSCAT6 format,
so delete line 6 in obtained .dat files to transform it into such format.

The reference for this tool is: R. Schuh, "Arbitrary particle shape modeling in DDSCAT and validation of simulation
results", in T. Wriedt & A. G. Hoekstra (Editors): Proceedings of the DDA - Workshop, Institut fur Werkstofftechnik,
Bremen (23 March 2007), p.22-24. http://diogenes.iwt.uni-bremen.de/vt/laser/papers/DDA-Workshop-final-proceedings.pdf

Updated in 2019 for massive simulation (many files, billions of dipoles).

- Added the possibility to choose arbitrary filename. Usage: "pip xdpl filename". PIP then will open filename.obj and make filename.dat in DDSCAT format. If only one argument is provided, PIP will work as previous version: open shape.obj and make shape.dat.

- Fixed a bug: when there is >100 dipoles by one axis, negative numbers stuck to each other because only 4 places were provided in the output file (e.g. "-xxx-yyy zzz"). Sometimes it caused ADDA to crush while reading such files. Now it's 6 places.
