                        Frequently Asked Questions
                              about ADDA

                   $Date::                            $:

Q: I have found a bug in ADDA. What should I do?
A: 1) Make sure you are using the latest version of ADDA (check the ADDA
   homepage). If you have modified the code yourself, try the original release.
   2) Look at the list of known bugs at the ADDA homepage, maybe your bug is
   already known.
   3) Try to understand how exactly the bug occurs, write down the sequence of
   actions that lead to it.
   4) Please try to localize the bug, i.e. try to remove as much command line
   parameters as possible without removing the bug. Also try to use defautl
   versions of input files, that you have modified.
   5) Send the results of (3) and (4) to the authors, together with all input

   files and Makefiles that you have used for compilation. Do not forget to
   include all the relevant output files,  at least 'log'. Please also include
   a brief description of your operation system and hardware. We will try to
   fix the bug as soon as possible.

Q: I do not understand how to ...? I run ADDA and get strange output or
   something different from what I have expected. What should I do?
A: 1) Make sure you are using the latest version of ADDA (check the ADDA
   homepage). Read carefully the relevant parts of the manual.
   2) Check the FAQ section of ADDA homepage.
   3) If that does not help, you're encouraged to send your question to the
   authors. Please try to make your question as specific as possible. If your
   question is based on a particular run, provide all relevant input and output
   files, at least 'log'.

Q: Can I use ADDA to calculate scattering by a particle near the infinite
   dielectric plane surface?
A: Basically, no. ADDA can not rigorously solve such light scattering problem.
   Such a rigorous solution requires a significant modification of the code,
   therefore it will not be implemented in the near future. However, you may
   approach this problem using the current version of ADDA.
   1) You may completely ignore the surface, this may be accurate enough if
   particle is far from the surface and the refractive index change when
   crossing the surface is small.
   2) A little more accurate approach is to consider the "incident field" in
   ADDA as a sum of incident and reflected plane waves. However, currently
   such incident field is not implemented, therefore it need first to be coded
   into ADDA.
   3) Another approach is to take a large computational box around the
   particle, and discretize the surface that falls into it. This is rigorous
   in the limit of infinite size of computational box, but requires enormous
   computational time. It also requires you to specify the shape files for all
   different sizes of the computational box.

Q: Can I calculate near-field using ADDA?
A: We are currently working to implement this feature in a convenient manner.
   For now there are two possible workarounds:
   1) You may save dipole polarizations to file by ADDA and then compute the
   near-field yourself, using a simple formula.
   2) Or you may extend the computational box with "dummy" dipoles located at
   points where you wish to calculate near-field. Saving the internal fields
   by ADDA will then produce the desired result, but at expense of extra
   computational time.
   Please see the manual for details.

Q: How can I simulate light scattering by a particle which shape can not be
   described by any of the ADDA predefined shapes?
A: The simplest is to specify your particle by a shape file. However, if your
   shape can easily be described in some parametric form and you are going to
   simulate a lot of particles with shapes from this class or if you think
   other users will probably simulate the same shapes, you are encouraged to
   implement new shape inside ADDA. There is an extensive instruction in the
   appendix of the manual on how to do it. Afterwards, please send modified
   source files to the authors so they would be incorporated in the next
   release for the benefit of the community.

Q: How is the Mueller matrix, produced by ADDA, defined and/or normalized?
A: It is defined as in Bohren & Huffman "Absorption and scattering of Light by
   Small Particles" (1983), and it is not normalized. Some other codes may
   compute Stokes scattering matrix, which is normalized so that 1,1-element
   is equal to 1 after averaging over the whole solid angle. This matrix
   should be multiplied by (pi*Csca/(lambda^2)) to get Mueller matrix. Csca is
   the scattering cross section for unpolarized light, equal to average of
   scattering cross sections for any two perpendicular incident polarizations.

This list is far from being complete. Please send your questions to
adda@science.uva.nl
